README.md, before:

# krcf

## Project Description

krcf is a high-performance Python package for anomaly detection and time series analysis, powered by a Rust backend. It implements the Random Cut Forest (RCF) algorithm, which is widely used for identifying anomalies in streaming data and multivariate time series. The package is designed for speed, scalability, and ease of use, making it suitable for both research and production environments.

Key features:

- Fast anomaly detection using Random Cut Forests
- Attribution and scoring for detected anomalies
- Support for shingling and advanced configuration
- Pythonic API with type hints

## API Usage

### Basic Example

```python
from krcf import RandomCutForest, RandomCutForestOptions

# Define forest options
options: RandomCutForestOptions = {
    "dimensions": 3,  # Number of features in each data point
    "shingle_size": 2,  # Shingle size for time series
    "output_after": 1,  # Number of points before output is ready
}
forest = RandomCutForest(options)

# Update the forest with new data points
forest.update([1.0, 2.0, 3.0])
forest.update([2.0, 3.0, 4.0])

# Compute anomaly score
score = forest.score([2.0, 3.0, 4.0])
print("Anomaly score:", score)
# >>> Anomaly score: 1.0

# Get attribution vector
attr = forest.attribution([2.0, 3.0, 4.0])
print("Attribution:", attr)
# >>> Attribution: {'high': [0.3333333333333335, 0.3333333333333335, 0.3333333333333335, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0], 'low': [0.0, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0]}
```

### API Reference

#### RandomCutForest(options)

Create a new Random Cut Forest instance.

- `options`: A dictionary or `RandomCutForestOptions` specifying configuration (see below).

#### Methods

- `update(point: Sequence[float]) -> None`: Update the forest with a new data point.
- `score(point: Sequence[float]) -> float`: Compute the anomaly score for a data point.
- `displacement_score(point: Sequence[float]) -> float`: Compute the displacement score.
- `attribution(point: Sequence[float]) -> dict`: Get the attribution vector for a data point.
- `density(point: Sequence[float]) -> float`: Compute the density estimate for a data point.
- `near_neighbor(point: Sequence[float], percentile: int) -> list`: Find near neighbors for a data point.
- `is_output_ready() -> bool`: Check if the forest is ready to output scores.

#### RandomCutForestOptions

Options for configuring the forest (all except `dimensions` and `shingle_size` are optional):

- `dimensions` (int): Number of features in each data point (required)
- `shingle_size` (int): Shingle size for time series (required)
- `num_trees` (int): Number of trees in the forest
- `sample_size` (int): Sample size for each tree
- `output_after` (int): Number of points before output is ready
- `random_seed` (int): Random seed for reproducibility
- ...and more advanced options

For more details, see the docstrings in the code or the API reference.

Commit message:

fix: refactors and improves type hinting for the library
Moves type definitions to a dedicated module for better organization.
Adds docstrings to type definitions for improved clarity.
Uses `typing_extensions` for `Self` type hinting to support older Python versions.
Adds documentation to RandomCutForestOptions
Updates `from_json` and `from_msgpack` to return `Self` for more precise type hinting.
Updates README with a more concise project description.
Adds example usage files to demonstrate the usage of the library.

README.md, after:

# krcf

## Project Description

Python bindings for the [aws/random-cut-forest-by-aws](https://github.com/aws/random-cut-forest-by-aws) library, providing a fast and efficient implementation of Random Cut Forests for anomaly detection.

Key features:

- Fast anomaly detection using Random Cut Forests
- Attribution and scoring for detected anomalies
- Support for shingling and advanced configuration

## API Usage

### Basic Example

```python
from krcf import RandomCutForest, RandomCutForestOptions

# Define forest options
options: RandomCutForestOptions = {
    "dimensions": 3,  # Number of features in each data point
    "shingle_size": 2,  # Shingle size for time series
    "output_after": 1,  # Number of points before output is ready
}
forest = RandomCutForest(options)

# Update the forest with new data points
forest.update([1.0, 2.0, 3.0])
forest.update([2.0, 3.0, 4.0])

# Compute anomaly score
score = forest.score([2.0, 3.0, 4.0])
print("Anomaly score:", score)
# >>> Anomaly score: 1.0

# Get attribution vector
attr = forest.attribution([2.0, 3.0, 4.0])
print("Attribution:", attr)
# >>> Attribution: {'high': [0.3333333333333335, 0.3333333333333335, 0.3333333333333335, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0], 'low': [0.0, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0]}
```

### API Reference

#### RandomCutForest(options)

Create a new Random Cut Forest instance.

- `options`: A dictionary or `RandomCutForestOptions` specifying configuration (see below).

#### Methods

- `update(point: Sequence[float]) -> None`: Update the forest with a new data point.
- `score(point: Sequence[float]) -> float`: Compute the anomaly score for a data point.
- `displacement_score(point: Sequence[float]) -> float`: Compute the displacement score.
- `attribution(point: Sequence[float]) -> dict`: Get the attribution vector for a data point.
- `density(point: Sequence[float]) -> float`: Compute the density estimate for a data point.
- `near_neighbor(point: Sequence[float], percentile: int) -> list`: Find near neighbors for a data point.
- `is_output_ready() -> bool`: Check if the forest is ready to output scores.

#### RandomCutForestOptions

Options for configuring the forest (all except `dimensions` and `shingle_size` are optional):

- `dimensions` (int): Number of features in each data point (required)
- `shingle_size` (int): Shingle size for time series (required)
- `num_trees` (int): Number of trees in the forest
- `sample_size` (int): Sample size for each tree
- `output_after` (int): Number of points before output is ready
- `random_seed` (int): Random seed for reproducibility
- ...and more advanced options

For more details, see the docstrings in the code or the API reference.
